The largest countries in the world by area

Today, there are more than 200 sovereign nations, including all colonies and territories belonging to them,
 which are the waters within 12 miles of a nation's border, groundwater, and airspace over all water and land.
  The area of the largest countries is one of the indicators of economic and political superiority,
   but it is by no means the most important.

   Algeria

   The largest country in Africa - Algeria ranks 10th in the top of the largest countries in the world.
   It is located in the north of Africa and is the largest African state. The largest part of Algeria, about 80%,
    is the Sahara desert. The capital is the city of the same name, Algiers.
     The state is one of the leading countries in terms of gas and oil reserves, but about 20% of people live below the poverty line.

     Kazakhstan

     Russia's closest neighbor, Kazakhstan, is ninth in area in the world.
      This state was part of the Soviet Union until 1991.
       It is located in Central Asia, 36% of its territory is desert, and 35% is steppe.

     Kazakhstan is the only landlocked country among large countries.
      But it has its own Aral Sea and the incomprehensible Lake Balkhash, one part of which is fresh and the other is .
       The country has a rich cultural and historical past.
      1219–24 ter. K. was conquered by Genghis Khan and became part of the Mongols.
       Ms. you After the death of Genghis Khan on ter.
        Three uluses (possessions) were formed in K.: the largest steppe part was received by the eldest son of Juchi, pd.
         and south-east - moved to Chagatai, north-east. - to Ugedei. Juchi's lands were named Ulug ulus
         (Great ulus) and were inherited by his son - Batu (see Baty).
          In school Ulug ulus is known in sources as Ak Orda (White Horde), and in later Russian chronicles as Golden Horde.
           For Mongol. board on ter. Civil wars stopped, trade and urban planning developed.


     Argentina

     Argentina was ranked eighth among countries in the world by area, and second in South America after Brazil.
      It stretches from north to south and lies in several climatic zones at once.
       In the north - subtropics, and in the south - cold deserts.

     India

     Do you know what is the largest country in South Asia?
      Of course, this is India - a land of contrasts, with unique inhabitants, diverse languages, customs, religions and landscapes.
       Today, it lags far behind in economic development.

     As you know, India is the birthplace of the best tea in the world.
      India is one of the most densely populated countries in the world - it ranks second in terms
       of population after China and should overtake it in the near future. India is the birthplace of Hinduism.

       Australia

       Continues the list Australia is the only mainland country in the world.
       Its territory is large enough, but a large part of it is uninhabited and uninhabitable.
        This is the land with the largest number of rare, amazing plants and animals.
        The capital is Canberra, the largest city located not on the coast, but inside the mainland.
         Australia is on the tenth place in the list of the happiest countries in the world.